Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to explain
a horror, mystery, science fiction, and thriller
film called “The Void." Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
During a chaotic night, James escapes from
a farmhouse and into the woods. A woman follows
him outside, but she gets shot in the process.
Vincent and his son, Simon, douse her with
gasoline, and Vincent throws a lit cigarette
on her, burning the woman to death. As they
leave to follow James, a masked man watches
her in flames without offering an ounce of
help.
An officer named Daniel Carter is on duty
near the area when he finds the struggling
James crawling along the road. Daniel approaches
him to help, thinking that the young man just
might be drunk. Upon seeing his state, the
officer rushes him to a nearby hospital where
Allison Fraser, his estranged wife, works
as a nurse with her colleague, Beverly. The
building has been mostly abandoned following
a fire, leaving the staff working as a skeleton
crew. Among them is Kim, who is a medical
intern tending to a patient named Cliff. In
the waiting area, Daniel greets Ben and his
pregnant granddaughter, Maggie. They talk
about the fire and the town's lack of improvements.
In the middle of their conversation, Daniel
hears James shouting from his room until Dr.
Richard Powell calms him down with a sedative.
Dr. Powell suggests the man has undergone
some severe trauma. While examining James’s
body, Allison identifies him from his I.D.
and notes the multiple needle marks on his
arm.
Later that evening, as Daniel and Allison
catch up, Dr. Powell interrupts them to report
how it would take a while for James to recover
enough to disclose what happened to him. Before
leaving, Dr. Powell expresses his empathy
for the ex-couple who had just lost their
child, advising that they should take the
time to grieve and move on. While Daniel walks
along the hallway, he notices Beverly inside
Cliff’s room. Her face is morbidly flayed
as she stabs Cliff in the eye. She turns around
and proceeds to skin herself. Daniel attempts
to calm her down, but Beverly continues to
approach him, scissors in hand. She makes
a move to attack, forcing Daniel to shoot
her fatally. The loud gunshot prompts the
rest of the hospital staff to run to the room,
shocked to see their dead colleague. Still
fazed, Daniel explains what happened before
going to the bathroom, where he collapses
due to shock. While seizing, Daniel sees strange
visions of dark skies and barren land, where
a large triangular object looms. As Daniel
gains consciousness, Dr. Powell and Allison
assist him, informing him that a state trooper
is already there to take over the situation.
The two advise Daniel to rest, but he insists
on getting back on duty.
State Trooper Mitchell awaits Daniel in the
hallway, informing him about the bloodbath
at the farmhouse. With James as their prime
suspect, Mitchell suggests putting him under
their custody. According to Mitchell, James
has a long list of drug-related issues and
may have given Beverly something for her to
act that way. Mitchell confiscates Daniel's
gun, disappointed with how he handled the
situation. With the phone lines down, Daniel
heads outside to report Beverly's death
from his patrol car but receives no response.
In front of his car stands a cult member wearing
a white robe with a black triangle on the
face. When Daniel confronts him, the lights
start to shut down, distracting him from the
robed man who attacks him with a knife. Despite
being wounded, he manages to get up but sees
other cult members slowly surrounding the
building. Daniel retreats to the hospital,
where the rest prevent him from bleeding out.
Meanwhile, Beverly’s body starts twitching
while a disturbing-looking creature comes
out of her mouth.
When Daniel regains consciousness, the cult
members standing eerily with blades in their
hands. With no way to call for backup, the
people in the hospital are suspicious of what
the cult wants.
Suddenly, they hear a scream from one of the
rooms where they see James fighting for his
life. Handcuffed to the bed, James tries to
maintain the farthest distance from Beverly,
who has now transformed into a tentacled monster.
Confused by the sight, Mitchell freezes while
Daniel tries to get James out of the room.
After firing gunshots at the creature, who
seems immune to bullets, the three leave and
close the door behind them. Daniel gathers
the rest, arming himself with an ax as he
plots to fight their way out of the building.
The situation escalates when Vincent and Simon
enter the lobby and hold them at gunpoint,
commanding them to hand over James. All while
the creature is overtaking Beverly’s body.
James refuses to go with Vincent and Simon,
and in return, threatens to kill Maggie. The
concerned doctor tries to rescue Maggie by
approaching James, but he only gets stabbed
in the neck. Unbeknownst to them, the creature
creeps onto Mitchell, its tentacles enveloping
his body. Daniel attempts to rescue him, but
he's too late. The creature crushes Mitchell’s
eyes. The creature throws Daniel off just
as Vincent and Simon arrive. The two shoot
it on the head and chops it down until it
dies.
Daniel rushes back to the others, asking everyone
to hide in the office as he handles the situation.
Vincent and Simon reach them, arguing with
Daniel. After the horrors the two have seen,
which resulted in Simon's injured vocal cords,
Vincent refuses to trust the group and attempts
to kill Daniel. Simon stops him from doing
so, thinking that they must work together
to escape the hospital. With no other information
other than the possibility of the creature
waking up again, they set Mitchell’s body
on fire and wheel it outside to prevent it
from taking the creature’s form. They head
to the office, finding Maggie close to labor.
Vincent's continued aggression causes the
rest to panic. Allison expresses to Daniel
the urgency to gather medical supplies in
the basement for Maggie’s delivery. Despite
the danger, Daniel relents but he needs to
arm himself first. He plots with Vincent and
Simon to retrieve his shotgun from his patrol
car.
In the dark, they find Daniel's car parked
farther than when he left it. The cult is
nowhere in sight. Meanwhile, the group transfers
Maggie to another room, where they lay her
down as she begins to go into labor. Not wanting
to wait anymore, Allison ventures to the basement
alone to gather supplies. A resurrected Dr.
Powell stands behind her. Simultaneously,
Daniel activates the car's strobe lights,
revealing the cult in front of them, hiding
in the dark woods. One attacks Simon, and
Daniel saves him. They rush back inside the
hospital.
As they arrive back in the building, Daniel
gets frustrated that Kim let Allison go alone,
so he makes his way to the basement to rescue
her. They notice the absence of Dr. Powell’s
body along the hallway, which used to lie
under the cover, but they continue to look
for Allison anyway. In the basement, a phone
rings and reveals that Dr. Powell is on the
other line, calmly revealing that he truly
knows the reason behind what causes the tentacled
creatures to appear out of the dead bodies.
In a safety box, Vincent browses through pictures
that indicate the doctor’s participation
in the vicious cult. Daniel gathers the medical
supplies needed and leaves Kim in charge of
Maggie’s procedures. The pressure takes
over Kim, putting her in a state of panic,
as she is still in training. Without a choice,
Kim, Ben, and Maggie have to endure the fear
of being left alone, while Daniel, Vincent,
and Simon interrogate James after finding
him among the photographs. Out of fear of
being tortured, James reveals that Dr. Powell
leads a group of people who engage in inhumane
activities and has the power to transform
people. The three of them force the distressed
James to come with them down to the basement.
He becomes more afraid after seeing the building
surrounded by cult members.
With the help of Kim through a radio, she
leads them to the room they intend to go to,
but the signal becomes shaky. After some time,
Kim realizes that they took an unknown set
of stairs that might lead to a dangerous place.
As Allison regains her consciousness, she
finds herself on an operating table while
Dr. Powell explains that he found a new way
to defy death. This stemmed from the devastating
loss of his daughter, Sarah, causing him to
resort to unconventional ways to maintain
life.Confused by his words, Allison remains
immobile because of drugs injected into her.
She begs the doctor to spare her life, but
according to him, it is too late.
Now struggling to tend to Maggie, Kim has
completely lost communication with the others
and is now forced to inject a pain reliever
on the pregnant young lady. Meanwhile, the
group sees a room with a triangular symbol;
Daniel is determined to find out the room’s
contents, despite Vincent’s protests not
to enter. In the operating room, Dr. Powell
reveals that he will bring his daughter back
to life through Allison. With a flayed face,
Dr. Powell uncovers Allison's body where something
rapidly grows inside of her. He says that
she will turn into something remarkable just
as her stomach moves uncontrollably.
Back in the basement, Daniel, Simon, Vincent,
and James enter the hidden room, surrounded
by deformed bodies, corpses brought back to
life by a sinister force. With disassembled
bodies, the creatures gravitate toward the
group to harm them. The corpses fill them
with illusion, but Vincent, who fazed for
a bit, snaps out of it. With monstrous appearances
and even superhuman strength, the corpses
start attacking them. The four fight them
before taking shelter in some corners of the
room. Not shortly after, James attacks Daniel,
but the officer manages to throw James off,
allowing him to be dragged by a mangled creature.
Upstairs, Maggie grows weaker as time passes
by, and the more time she endures labor, the
paler her skin looks, indicating that she
might not last long. Fearful of the situation,
Kim hesitates to perform an emergency C-section,
but Ben pleads with her to gather her strength
and save his granddaughter. However, Maggie
stands up and slits her grandfather’s throat
before saying that she is the one carrying
Dr. Powell’s unborn child. A sense of new
strength has captivated her body as her delivery
nears. What was causing her pain is now fueling
her strength. Kim looks at her with complete
fear, but Maggie says not to worry as everything
will be fine. Maggie’s demeanor and personality
have completely shifted as if something or
someone is controlling her. Shortly after,
Kim sees the cult members enter the building,
making her run, but is again trapped by some
who are by the door.She locks herself in
a room to escape.
As the three men get separated in the basement,
Vincent and Simon hallucinate about being
in their old home, where Vincent blames his
son for losing their family. After blurting
out hurtful words to his son, he proceeds
to attack him. Simon lights a flare gun and
drives it into Vincent's chest, snapping them
both out of the illusion. After snapping back
to reality, Vincent apologizes to his son,
accepting his fate. Kim, hidden in the vents,
tries to call Daniel for help, but the radio
isn't working. She stifles a scream as a cult
member comes close. Along the dark hallways,
Daniel sees Allison inside the operating room
in the full stages of the pregnancy, remembering
how devastated they were when they lost their
child. Dr. Powell's voice echoes in Daniel's
mind, reminding him of how he looked relieved
upon learning that their child died. Instantly,
Allison transforms into a tentacled creature
with slimy parts extending from her body.
Refusing to allow Allison to become a monster,
he brutally attacks his wife’s mutated physique
with an ax.
Unconsciously, Daniel gets transported to
a morgue with a giant glowing triangle where
Dr. Powell claims that he has defied God after
finding the ability to conquer not just life
but also death. Moreover, he promises Daniel
that he can reunite with his child again if
and only if he is willing to die first. From
behind, Maggie appears to stab Daniel before
approaching Dr. Powell, who now appears to
be skinless. Endearingly, Maggie kneels before
him and looks with complete devotion as he
recites a chant in front of the triangle which
opens. After, Dr. Powell turns back to Maggie
again and touches her head as if to bless
her. Maggie sees visions of the creature in
her body and panics. She screams until her
stomach explodes, where a giant, monstrous
creature is born. The doctor claims that it
is Sarah who has now been reincarnated.
Simon and Vincent shoot at the creature from
a distance, but it follows them and is ready
for bloody combat. The creature takes Vincent,
and Simon attempts to save him. After seeing
Simon nearly get dragged along, Vincent drenches
it in isopropyl alcohol, ordering his son
to set them ablaze. Simon hesitates, unable
to kill his father. Vincent urges him, seeing
a vision of his wife and baby behind his son
just as the creature mutilates him. With sadness
in his eyes, Simon throws the flare and watches
his father in such a tragic state. Simon retreats
into the vent, escaping the horror.
At the same time, Dr. Powell informs Daniel
that he can be reunited with Allison if he
stops resisting and starts cooperating with
his astral abilities. However, Daniel refuses
to join him and tackles him, causing them
to tumble into the void. Upstairs, the hallways
shake as Simon runs from the monstrous creature.
As the walls close in on them, Simon leaps
forward, barely escaping before getting trapped
inside. He checks behind him, finding the
hospital looking normal. He's back to the
real world, where he reunites with Kim.
At daybreak, the cult members have entirely
disappeared as if nothing happened. The void
has taken Dr. Powell and his followers away,
but Daniel and Allison hold hands in a different
world under a black pyramid where they have
reincarnated. In this dark place, they remain
unharmed spirits trapped in a void, unsure
if this is the end of them or just
the beginning.